=head1 Cryptoki For Perl

=head2 INTRODUCTION

In cryptography, PKCS #11 is one of the family of standards called Public-Key Cryptography Standards (PKCS), originally published by RSA Laboratories, that defines a platform-independent API to cryptographic tokens, such as hardware security modules (HSM) and smart cards. (The PKCS #11 standard names the API "Cryptoki" which is an amalgamation of "cryptographic token interface" and is pronounced as "crypto-key", but "PKCS #11" is often used to refer to the API as well as the standard that defines it.)

Since there isn't a real standard for cryptographic tokens, this API has been developed to be an abstraction layer for the generic cryptographic token. The PKCS #11 API defines most commonly used cryptographic object types (RSA keys, X.509 Certificates, DES/Triple DES keys, etc.) and all the functions needed to use, create/generate, modify and delete those objects.

PKCS #11 is largely adopted to access smart cards and HSMs. Most commercial certificate authority software uses PKCS #11 to access the CA signing key or to enroll user certificates. Cross-platform software that needs to use smart cards uses PKCS #11, such as Mozilla Firefox and OpenSSL (using an extension). Software written for Microsoft Windows may use the platform specific MS-CAPI API instead. 

(from L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PKCS_11>)

=head3 Software HSM

You can test your application with L<SoftHSM|http://www.opendnssec.org/softhsm> from the L<OpenDNSSEC Project|http://www.opendnssec.org>.

=head2 INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

=head2 SYNOPSIS

	use Cryptoki qw(:all);

	my $f = Cryptoki::load('/usr/lib64/softhsm/libsofthsm.so');

	$f->C_Initialize;

	my $info = {};
	$f->C_GetInfo($info);

	my $slots = [];
	$f->C_GetSlotList(1,$slots);

	for my $id ( @$slots ) {
		my $slotInfo = {};
		$f->C_GetSlotInfo($id,$slotInfo);

		my $tokenInfo = {};
		$f->C_GetTokenInfo($id,$tokenInfo);
	}

	my $session = -1;
	$f->C_OpenSession(0,CKF_SERIAL_SESSION|CKF_RW_SESSION,$session);

	$f->C_Login($session, CKU_USER, '1234'));

=head2 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

GNU General Public Licence (GPL)

Copyright (C) 2014 by Markus Lauer

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.18.2 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.


